So now that we know the two types of objects references and snapshots that we can get back from the
fire store library let's actually talk about the structure of our database on fire store.
So let's go back to fire store and let's look at our collections.
So we only have one collection right now.
Our users collection if we look at our users collection and we look at how this database looks we can
almost see that this collection of users is like an object.
There is this key of users that points to this object that contains these key ideas that point to the
actual value of an object that contains the document information.
This is almost identical to our shop data.
If you look at our shop data is an object that has these keys of these category names that point to
these objects that hold the values of these actual categories.
This is by no means a coincidence firebase is what's considered a no sequel database the no sequel database
is different from a sequel database because of the way that it can store data.
We'll talk about sequel databases more in a later lesson as well as how they differ from no single databases.
But let's first explore no sequel databases because we're using firestorm right now
just like our chase on objects inside of our front end.
They can have any number of properties and values are user documents right now have the same properties
and the same values as each other in the sense that both documents have created at a display name and
email property but it doesn't have to be the case we can make a new user document that has completely
different fields from the other objects this one can have a name where the value can say you or it can
even have an address value that says let's say Toronto our object is still a user Document object but
it's different from the other user documents inside of the collection.
This becomes troublesome because on our front end if we get all these documents we might not know that
these values are different but the advantage is that you're able to have these really flexible documents
that can store any properties right regardless of what the actual conflict on the front end will be
we'll explore that later as well but that's just one thing to keep in mind is that when we're using
a no secret database we have to make sure that we enforce ourselves to store the same values across
our documents if we can because we don't want to pull in all of our users and iterate through them only
to find that some objects don't have properties that we expect them to have beyond that.
The other thing to keep in mind is what types of properties we can store.
Now let's look at what types of properties we can actually store on documents so here we can see that
we can add a field as we did earlier and this is the field name.
And this is the type that this field expects the value to be so we can have strings numbers boolean
and then we see here maps maps you can pretty much see as Jason objects and we would prefer to store
a list of things as maps because as we saw with our data normalization course that it's easier for the
fire store database to find specific elements inside of a list by the property name or the key rather
than just searching through an array for what the element is which is the same reason why we switched
our shot data from an array to an object arrays are not actually arrays inside a fire store their maps
except the index is the key.
So the first element has a key of zero.
The second has a key of one.
The third a key of two and so on and so forth.
So they're kind of like maps that resemble arrays and we'll explore those later you don't have to get
too caught up in them there's no there's timestamp which is like a date object and then there's geo
point which is kind of like a coordinate but we don't have to worry about these two we're probably also
not use them so those are the types of properties we can store.
Now what we want to do is we actually want to add in our collection from our code base because manually
adding a collection and adding all the documents and the field is going to be extremely tedious for
this huge object that we have here.
So what we'll do is we'll actually make a new you tell for it and we'll make a you tool that we can
see ourselves using again in the future.
So what we'll call our you tool is export concept ad collection and items and what it will take is a
collection name or we can call it collection key
and then we can say for the objects that we want to add in let's call it objects to add which can be
an array now inside of our function.
What we're going to do is we are going to create the collection using the collection key so we will
get back a collection ref from fire store dot collection and then passing in our collection key.
And if you remember firebase will give us back a rough object no matter what.
And this is great for us because using this collection ref we don't actually have to manually make one
in the database firebase.
We'll make this collection rough object for us and then if we start adding elements to it as documents
then firebase will start creating both the collection and the documents inside a fire store.
In fact let's actually rename our function to add collection and documents because that's what we're
adding documents not items.
Now what we need to do is we need to call our ad collection and documents function somewhere in our
app where we have access to the shop data.
Now we can get access by passing the data in through a selector but we do want to only fire this function
one time.
So let's do it in our app because our app only mounts once and after we've updated our data in our fire
store.
We're going to remove this code because we only want to add it programmatically.
Right.
We're just adding our shop data to our back end one time so we don't have to write it out by hand in
our fire store.
So what we'll do is we will actually bring in our selector from redux.
So let's bring it in from our redux folder shop and our shop selectors and then we need are select collections
for preview and also our new function add collection and documents.
So now that we have these imported in let's put this in our map state to props as the collections array
and what we'll do is we will D structure our collections array from our props and pass it into our new
function so what we'll need is the key which is collections and our collections array and now if we
look inside of our console we'll see our collections reference where the I.D. points the collections
but we'll also see in our crown firebase that if we refresh we won't see the collection which is exactly
what we want because we haven't instantiated any documents in it.
So the reference doesn't truly point to anything real in the database yet and now that we have our collection
ref we need to actually add these objects into this collection and we'll do it in the next video because
this video is getting a little bit long so I'll see you guys in the next video.